welcome to wood Gaston science where I
attempt to learn the science behind wood
gastos in this video I've built a glass
outer can for the vortex 5.4 so we can
see how the air flows within the wood
gas stove introducing the glass vortex
iPhone 4 as you can see the outer can of
this gas stove has been made out of a
glass vase that was graciously donated
by my wife and I've drilled for fresh
air intake holes around the outside the
inner can is simply the vortex 5.4 can
and we've talked so much about and it's
just inserted into the top the lighting
of the glass vortex 5.4 is the same and
so are the parameters as all the
previous videos with around one copper
of wood pellets and a splash in this
case a little more than a splash of
liquid heat from the yellow bottle this
stove came to gasification a little bit
on the slow side and I think it was
because of the not so perfect step of
the inner can to the outer can at the
top once the gas stove started to gasify
we got that same beautiful vortex flame
that we've seen in other videos the
flame never got nearly as intense in any
of these burns as the original vortex
5.4 but that's due to the leaky area
around the top can and the outer base
notice that when a burning Punk stick is
placed inside the gas stove you can
actually see the gas pushing the flame
downward and in this view you can
actually see the smoke being pushed down
and then up the sides of the inner can
as they make their way to the secondary
airports here you can see the fresh air
intake working as it pulls the smoke in
to the stove here's another view of the
air and smoke being pushed down out of
the primary airports and then the smoke
moves up the sides of the can towards
the secondary air holes you normally
can't see the wood gas being pushed out
of the bottom of the primary airports
that's why I'm using smoke to allow us
to trace those air flows you've probably
noticed in different clips on this video
that the quality of the video changes
quite significantly I've had some major
problems with cameras over the last few
weeks and that's why it's taking so long
for me to actually get this video done
here is a great view of the gases being
burned at the primary air holes and
notice that when the flame is removed
how much brighter the flame at the top
of the stove gets and then how much it's
reduced when you introduce the flame
back into the bottom here is an
interesting phenomenon when I reinsert
the stick into the hot wood gas rich
environment it reacts and starts to
reborn' the wood gas and the oxygen
coming in from the fresh air inlet this
clip does a fantastic job about showing
you how burning the wood gas that's
coming out of the primary air holes
affects the characteristics of the
burning flame at the top of the stove as
you can see when you put a small flame
in it does affect it pretty well but as
the flame under the can at the primary
air holes starts burning more and more
of the gas and
bigger and bigger the flame at the top
starts to gutter out and it really
starts to get low now watch carefully at
the readmission of this stick as its put
back into the can you can see the wood
gas so flare up at the primary air
intake and then shoot down to the stick
it's very cool and here the stick is
cool enough where it doesn't read night
and shows the smoke and wood gas being
pushed down from the primary air and
then up the sides of the can again in
this view there are some new wood
pellets that are put in now the new wood
pellets smoke but the smoke is not
coming up you can actually see that the
smoke is going down it's not coming up
into the flame but down in through the
charred Appellate this view definitely
shows that the stove is drafting
downward this next clip will be a
demonstration on pyrolysis pyrolysis can
be broken down into pyro meaning fire
and lysis meaning separating which the
word paralysis means the separating of
material by fire the true definition is
a thermo chemical decomposition of
organic materials at elevated
temperatures in the absence of oxygen
the gas is produced by pyrolysis in wood
our carbon dioxide carbon monoxide
methane hydrogen and various other
vapors here I'm putting a punk stick
into the top of the stove all the way
down to the wood pellets if there is
true paralysis occurring in the stove
there will be an oxygen free zone
between the top of the pellets and the
bottom of the flame so when I remove the
punk stick from the stove you'll see
that everything that was below the flame
is not burnt if this was not true
paralysis that would have all been burnt
all the way to the
this next clip will show that if you
burn enough of the wood gas coming out
of the primary air holes you can
actually extinguish the flame at the top
so here you'll see that the flame
underneath is burning bright and burning
a lot of the wood gas and this in the
flame at the top just one out let's
watch that again
you
pretty cool huh well I hope this helps
everybody understand the flow inside of
the wood gas both better if you have any
questions please comment and this ends
wood gas stove science where I build and
burn a glass wood gas stove thank you
for joining me goodbye